Hello, welcome to this new weekly review.
The previous episodes were quite a success, so I will keep on posting videos
since you seem interested. Besides it helps a lot of people
to understand better what happened this week.
Of course, I will talk to you about the election of Trump as the US President.
I'll be mean, but it's really funny to see that once again
the great polling organizations, the higher souls, the fashionables, well they got it all wrong.
Well I have a character witness, I will not reveal who,
but I sent a message to a journalist before the election that said
"Listen, don't believe what your newspaper says, Clinton is going to take a shellacking".
It was a bit vulgar to talk like that, but everyone understands what I mean.
So why did I say that things were not as obvious as some said?
First, a member of my staff was in the USA during the Democratic primaries,
she was campaigning there.
She did this in three different states, three! And she was not with top advisers, she was doing fieldwork.
It gave her the opportunity to see three different situations on the progressive side.
Her name is Sophia Chikirou, she is the head of communications in my campaign.
She went there in order to prepare my campaign.
We wanted to see the best that could come out of Bernie Sander's campaign on the field.
In the USA, we saw the importance of social networks, of what we are doing together right now,
we saw that it was working.
After that Sophia went to Spain and campaigned for Podemos.
We saw that what we were doing in France was not that bad, and sometimes better than
North-Americans or Podemos in Spain or Bernie Sanders.
Anyway, to go beyond the "technical" satisfaction,
the most telling aspect of what was going on in the USA was that the people was back.
There was something new about Bernie Sanders' campaign... Even if some journalists don't like us,
and it's their right, well how come they are so lazy?
They could at least try to look what's going on and try to understand.
They were all in their office making phone calls to their correspondents in the USA.
And where do you think their correspondents were?
When correspondents cover the US election for the champagne socialist press,
they don't work on the field, they stay with top advisers,
they talk with them for hours in a very serious way,
and they believe everything they are told! So to them, Bernie Sanders didn't matter.
And yet, a lot of things happened in his campaign,
like the meeting he held in New York.
It was the first time in decades that a meeting was held on the street, can you imagine?
50,000 people were there, listening, screaming.
Besides, the guy did not even make efforts, he was dressed worse than I am, his hair was a mess
and his speeches were pretty much the same.
He was not a kind of candidate who made sensational speeches,
people did not come to his meetings to see outstanding shows.
What was outstanding was the policies he advocated, they were concerned with the people.
Some people don't admit that some politicians
prefer taking care of the people rather than making grandiloquent sentences.
That's the way he convinced people, like when he advocated
a 15$ per hour minimum wage,
because in the USA, the minimum wage is very low,
and since then, several states have adopted these measures.
Anyway, we could see people mobilizing,
people of modest means,
people who need to work two or three jobs to make a living, and sometimes they can't even make ends meet,
people who spend their life wondering whether their kids woke up to go to school,
whether they ate before going to bed,
because they are not at home, they are working.
Something was really happening in his meetings.
And it was not just the fact that Bernie Sanders' meetings were crowded,
Sanders won victories over Clinton in a lot of states
during the democratic primary.
And which states were the most interesting to observe? Those with a Republican majority.
Sanders won in these states,
which means that the people, in the sense of the progressive people,
rallied around him against a rightwing popular majority.
In Democratic states however, people supported Mrs Clinton,
the elites especially, because ordinary people voted for Sanders.
When our friend was in Florida, she saw the way things happened.
The Clintons thought they were ruling this state, but there they were close to lose.
And in New York, where Sophia went too,
it all began with a massive fraud!
The mayor of New York, the boss of the Democrats there who is rotten to the core,
he changed the rules of the game,
and 130,000 people were crossed off the list of voters,
all those who had registered less than three months before the vote.
Of course in such conditions, Hillary Clinton won the New York caucus easily.
Same thing again in Pennsylvania, Nebraska and other states.
They cheated from the beginning to the end of the primary.
And in the end, they were rubbing their hands with glee, they were satisfied with the fact that they had cheated.
They obtained the result what they wanted.
Like in France. There's pure evil, Trump,
and there's a reasonable person. And on top of that she's a woman.
That's the way they sold the story, they overused the argument
in a way that was not really feminist.
This was lucky, because Trump's discourse was horribly macho and sexist,
so it gave the Democrats comfort. This seemed to be the only problem,
like the rest did not exist.
And now is the time to examine what came out of this primary.
Mrs Clinton took the lead of the Democrats,
instead of Mr Sanders, who is not a Democrat, but an independent senator who run for the Democratic nomination.
Don't you see that there's a connection with the Socialist Party's primary in France?
The Democrats organize the primary and say "All of you who want to participate, come!"
And Sanders participates. And of course, the polls say that only Mrs Clinton can win.
But unfortunately, the polls said that
Sanders would win against Trump.
Not a word was said about that in the French media.
The primary was not even over when the Newspaper Libération,
who is always the first to misinform citizens, was saying that Clinton would get the nomination
although this was not true.
I remember I discussed this with journalists. I told them that they were crazy to do that,
that they did not understand what was going on and that it was a wishful thinking.
They wanted Mrs Clinton to be the candidate, that was understandable,
but they did not even look what was going on.
This was a tour de force, the people had only one choice:
voting for a billionaire, Mrs Clinton, who did not give a damn about their problems,
who despised, insulted, invisibilized and cheated against Bernie Sanders.
There wasn't any choice, they had to vote for her because she had won the primary.
And Sanders accepted the rules of the game,
meaning he participated in the primary, he lost,
and although Clinton had cheated, he admitted defeat.
It was one thing that Sanders capitulated,
but it was another thing that people who trusted him and rallied around him,
who campaigned for him would do the same.
They said "So it's Mrs Clinton, not Sanders? Well I won't vote for a woman who is corrupted,
I won't vote for a millionaire or a billionaire,
her connections with large corporations are dubious,
and she doesn't care about us. She might try to convince me, but I won't vote for her!"
A lot of people thought that!
I'm not making this up, that's what the results showed.
If you look at the result, you'll see that Mrs Clinton
obtained 6 million votes less than Mr Obama.
So the number of votes for Clinton is a bit higher than for Trump,
but since it is a federal state, every state has a different vote
that gives candidates a certain number of superdelegates that varies whether the state has a proportional representation
or an election by absolute majority.
Every state has a different voting system since the USA are a federal state.
In France, we have a unitary state, our people is therefore one and indivisible.
The USA have a federal system, so the laws
and the rules are not the same everywhere.
I'm saying this for those who are fond of federal states. There you are, enjoy!
This is what happens when someone who has more votes for her loses the election.
And if she lost, it is because some people
who were supposed to support her did not vote.
Why did they not vote? That's what you should ask yourselves.
You who are watching, do you think these people ask themselves this question? Not at all, they just keep saying what they've always said:
"Trump was elected by imbeciles" bla bla
"It's because of North-American rednecks".
But no! Trump is the uninhibited right,
so he got the votes of the racists, the sexists, the male chauvinists,
They're all like that, it doesn't make any difference.
He got the votes of traditional Republican voters
plus those of men and women who are not macho, racist nor sexist
but who share rightwing ideas, you know.
They don't vote for someone who is said to be from the left, who is corrupted,
and who does not respect the federal laws on Defence, period.
People went to the voting booths. They thought "We don't want this woman,
we'd rather vote for Mr Trump".
Trump got the votes of Mitt Romney in the previous election.
There's nothing more to add. Do you understand?
This woman prevented people from mobilizing.
If Democrats lost and Trump won, it is because of the Clintons, because of this political line".
In France, the first clintonian was already Mr Hollande, in 1983-84.
The texts he wrote were exactly the same as those of the Clintons.
In Europe, it resulted in Blair, a clintonian, Schröder, another clintonian,
and Bill Clinton himself held meetings in Europe.
They were called "Summits of Modernizers", in which could be found the head of the Communist party Alema,
the German and Spanish socialists, Blair,
and they really sucked with their old tunes. They were all crying on
Mr Clinton's shoulder, thanks to whom their horizon was looking brighter.
These meetings were unbelievable shows of cult of personality.
These people were responsible for the disaster.
And every time one of them were at the head of a government, an abominable right wing government would follow.
After Bill Clinton Americans ended up with George Bush.
After Obama, they end up with Trump? What kind of government will follow after that?
You got my message: this woman prevented popular mobilization.
The situation is exactly the same in our country, the problem is the same.
As for Trump, he mobilized the right, but we need to go further,
we need to go beyond the traditional  concepts of left and right, because this is not the problem.
Trump did not campaign with racist and sexist insults only.
That's what snobbish people think, they did not listen to his speeches entirely.
"Oh, he said that, that's horrible!" They did not listen to the rest. What did he say?
He said that free-trade agreements would be over, that the country needed re-industrialization
and that the USA should stop making war on the rest of the planet.
That's what people heard.
When you work three jobs to barely earn the equivalent of one salary at the end of the month
that's what you hear. You don't listen to the racist and sexist insults.
These guys don't care about that
since they have right wing ideas.
Besides they are Americans, so they don't listen, they don't care about that.
They are racist and sexist too, a part of them a least, so it's not important to them.
However, the political line, the issue of salary and jobs are important to them, do you understand?
This was at stake in the election, not the game of political sides, the game of right-minded people versus the rest.
And it will be the same in France.
If you understand Hollande, Valls, Montebourg and whatnot when you hear "the left",
or if "left wing" politicians' political programmes are full of awful measures,
well people won't vote for them, that's obvious!
This is why I must stand firm.
I cannot allow myself to get involved in their crushing machine.
I won't submit to their vote in their primary election.
I will submit to the vote of the French people only, I don't want to hear about the rest.
This is why I'm doing what I'm doing, I don't care that people call me right or left.
I don't want people to hear that I'm a left wing politician,
I want people to hear what I have to say, what my political measures are, that's what matters.
You should understand that a wave swept across the USA and will sweep across the rest of the world.
Everywhere people are fed up with free trade policies, with free and undistorted competition,
globalization, competitiveness and all these tall tales that impoverish people.
People are told: "You and your kids have no future.
Besides they will no longer go to school because schools don't exist anymore,
and if you want them to learn, you'll have to pay" and so on.
You know about this.
Can you believe that on the day that followed the vote,
the guy who said that hospitals, roads and bridges
should be built was Trump?
The right wing guy said that because the rest did not even think about this.
Of course! They don't care!
That's what happened in the USA.
A first wave had already swept across the USA with Obama's election.
He was elected thanks to the mobilization of the unprivileged.
Voters thought: "This guy is black, so he knows what it's like to be out of favor,
he knows what it's like to be discriminated against, what it's like to be ill-treated".
As a matter of fact he did not, since he did nothing, or hardly nothing.
That's what happened in the USA. The wave had swept across Latin America before that,
and now it's sweeping across Europe.
But every time, the wave may go to the right or to the progressive side.
And the problem is that the right does not pull its punches.
People vote for Le Pen, for Sarkozy or for Juppé, the guy with extreme propositions.
Voters don't pull their punches.
On the evening of Trump's election, who was invited on public television, you know, the Socialist Party's TV? Marine Le Pen!
You missed her, right? You had not seen her in a while.
Every time the public television does something, they invite a guy from the National Front.
You missed them, and you got what you wanted,
as much as you like it. But on the other side, lefties are not invited.
"Eat some Clinton!"
"But I don't want to..."
"Eat it anyway!"
"Eat some Hollande, Valls, Montebourg and whatnot!"
"But I don't want to..."
"Eat it anyway, that's all you'll get!".
So people think: "If that's all I can get, I'll stay home". They methodically organize the disaster.
These people are responsible for the catastrophe.
And did you notice how they changed their tune all of a sudden?
Because when their US boss speaks, they do as they're told.
This is why I say that they'll keep a low profile with Trump's election.
Trump will be told: "Mr President , here are the leashes to keep the lap dogs".
"Great!", and he'll pull on the leashes, and his lap dogs will obey, as usual.
Do you remember their protesting when Bush was in office?
They did not say a word. In France the Atlanticist party is the USA's lap dog.
Right now Atlanticists are a bit indignant, because they don't sit well with a guy like Trump very much.
But you'll see that they'll put up with it, they won't make waves. These people are dangerous.
I cannot end this video without mentioning that we are now 46,500 subscribers to this channel, so we'll be 50,000 very soon.
If you like this channel, please subscribe.
But before this, there's something else to do:
you can click on the little blue thumb, it helps boosting views, as they say.
It helps increasing the audience and sharing videos with other people.
And if you want to add comments, please do, because we try to take them into account
in order to improve this channel.
Don't forget that when you subscribe, you provide me with powerful means that infuriate my opponents, and I like that!